Hello everyone and welcome back to EnglishPod. My name is Marko and my name is Katherine and we've got a great lesson for you today
What level is this? Marko. This is an elementary lesson and we're gonna be touching one of these
Medical topics today. We're gonna talk about chicken pox. Oh gosh. I hated the chicken pox
They're horrible and they each and you can't do anything about it and your parents say don't scratch
Right so chicken pox is a illness that you get usually as a child and what happens is you start getting these little red dots all over your body
Like little mosquito bites exactly and they come all over your body arms legs a face and
You can only get this disease once unless maybe you didn't really get it too seriously
So most people get this one there children exactly and what makes you very uncomfortable when you get chicken pox as you said
It's these little red dots they itch just like mosquito bites, but you can't scratch because if you do
Then you get your skin gets like marked right you have like things ever for it like scars
So it's best not to scratch and that's what we're gonna talk about today
Somebody has the chicken pox so let's listen to our dialogue for the first time and then we'll be right back
What's wrong with you? Why are you scratching so much?
I feel itchy I can't stay anymore. I think I may be coming down with something. I feel like headed in leak
Let me have a look
Whoa get away from me
What's wrong? I think you have chicken pox
You're contagious get away. Don't break it on me
Maybe it's just a rash or an allergy. We can't be sure and die see a doctor well in the meantime
You're a biohazard. I didn't get it when I was a kid and I've heard that you can even die if you get it as an adult
Are you serious you always bloat things out of proportion in any case? I think I'll go take an oatmeal bath
you
All right, we're back so I think this kid does have the chicken pox
Definitely and uh well he's got a funny solution for it, but before we get there
We've got a lot of great medical words. It's not just basic body words for you and today's language take away
Language take away
All right, so let's start with our first word
He mentioned that he felt itchy. I feel itchy itchy so okay. This is often confused even among children who are native speakers of English
There are two words to itch and to scratch, but this person is itchy so it means that you're skin
You want to scratch it. It's it's maybe uncomfortable like a mosquito bite is itchy
Okay, so itchy would be the adjective right to the noun and itch so if you have an itch you feel itchy
Exactly, so and that's when you scratch
All right, so hopefully not he feels itchy and he also felt a little bit light headed
Okay, so you know the word head, you know the word light so here we have a person who feels light had it
It means that you kind of feel a little bit strange and your head is a little bit
What's a good word of describe it? Yeah, almost dizzy or faint right so
Usually feel a little bit weak. You don't really feel very well your your head is light headed
The complete opposite of having a headache, right? Exactly. Okay, and
Well then the girl got scared and she said get away you are contagious. Oh gosh
Now this is a dangerous one someone who is contagious can pass their illness to someone else
So for example the flu is very contagious and if I have the flu
Marco doesn't want me to you know come over and touch all this stuff and sneeze and cough into his food right
Exactly, so that's contagious. It's an adjective and that means that you easily
Pass your illness to another person
Exactly. All right, so why don't we take a look at a couple of different examples using this word contagious
Example one
Don't get near me chickenpox are very contagious
Example two
The sickness that is going around the office is very contagious
Example three
H1n1 flu is very contagious
All right, so you want to avoid contagious people but you might also want to avoid people who have this next word
It's called a rash a rash exactly so why do you want to avoid people who have a rash?
They might have the contagious rash
Who knows but you can get a rash for a number of different reasons a rash is just
Basically a part of your skin that becomes
Irritated or uncomfortable and sometimes it turns red or pink
Exactly, so as you said it happens for different reasons sometimes you may be have
Bad seafood and your skin and you have you start to have rash his all over your body
Other times you can touch some plants that are dangerous like
Poison ivy or poison oak and then you get a big rash and are last word for today's a little bit dramatic
She called him a bio hazard bio hazard well, let's take a take a look at these words individually
The first word bio comes from the word biology so that's something that is life
An animal plant or person and hazard is something that is dangerous
So bio hazard is a well something that's alive. That's dangerous
Right or that's dangerous towards a living person right or organism for example
You don't want to be near an area that has a lot of radiation. It's a bio hazard
exactly or some of these diseases like
Ebola virus these are very dangerous towards living things and so bio hazard is the name point
Exactly and usually it's there's a symbol a very clear symbol that kind of looks like a triangle and it's red and
Even in movies it's appeared right. I think in that movie yellow it's red or yellow. Yeah, sometimes
All right, so bio hazard. I think we've taken a look at a lot of words
So why don't we listen to this dialogue again? Let's slow it down a little bit see if we can understand a little bit more
What's wrong with you? Why are you scratching so much? I feel itchy. I can't stand it anymore
I think I may be coming down with something. I feel like headed in a week
Let me have a look whoa get away from me. What's wrong?
I think you have the chickenpox your contagious get away. Don't breathe on me
It's just a rash or an allergy we can't be sure until I see a doctor well in the meantime you are a bio hazard
I didn't get it when I was a kid and I've heard that you can even die if you get it as an adult
Are you serious? You always blow things out of proportion in any case. I think I'll go take an oatmeal bath
you
All right, we're back. So now why don't we take a look at fluency builder and start taking a look at all these phrases
Fluency builder well the first one is
Something that we often say when we're starting to feel ill this phrases coming down with so I could say I think I'm coming down with a
Colt for example, so basically you say I'm coming down with something so a cold or I think I'm coming down with the flu
So you're saying that I think I'm getting ill
Exactly, it means I'm just starting to feel sick and so
You could say I've had a cold for a week you wouldn't use the phrase I'm coming down with in that situation
You don't use it when you're starting to feel sick very good. So you could ask your boss
I think I'm coming down with the flu. Can I go home early?
Right and I think this is a very useful phrase. It's very
Natural to say so why don't we listen to a couple of other examples
Example one
Honey really take my temperature. I think I'm coming down with something
Example two you must be coming down with a cold
Example three
Tommy came down with a flu
All right, so coming down with coming down with the flu coming down with a cough
etc. All right, what's our next phrase?
Well, this one's great. It's a it's a filler phrase. So
In the meantime in the meantime
So it could I could say all right, I'm gonna go cook dinner
In the meantime Marco, can you please clear the table? Okay, so while you are
Cooking dinner, I am doing something else. I'm cleaning the table. So two things happening at the same time
In the meantime very good. So it's a filler you say
Because usually it follows another phrase. So I'm gonna be doing this report for a while in the meantime
Can you just can you just wait here on the sofa please? Okay very good. So in the meantime
So you're connecting two different actions two different ideas exactly very good in the meantime and what about our last phrase?
All right, there are some people who really like to do this and I might be one of them
It's called it to blow things out of proportion. All right, and you're gonna hear this phrase a lot with native English speakers and so to blow things out of proportion
Well, pretty much means that your
Exaggerating or you're making a really big deal out of something that's not very
Serious so for example, if you come over to my house and you break a glass and I start freaking out and yelling at you because you broke my glass
I say Marco you're blowing things out of proportion. I'll just buy you a new one. It's not that serious
All right, so don't exaggerate, right? Right, so often times you feel like this with with
With siblings spouses or bosses who react very seriously, so you can say hey stop
Stop yelling like you're growing you're blowing things out of proportion. This is not a really big deal
Exactly, all right, so um blowing things out of proportion. Let's not do that, but let's listen to our dialogue for the last time and then we'll be back
What's wrong with you? Why are you scratching so much? I feel richy. I can't stare anymore
I think I may be coming down with something. I feel like headed in leak
Let me have a look
Whoa get away from me. What's wrong? I
Think you have chicken packs. You're contagious get away. Don't break it on me
Maybe it's just a rash or an allergy. We can't be sure and die. See a doctor well in the meantime
You're a biohazard. I didn't get it when I was a kid and I've heard that you can even die if you get it as an adult
Are you serious? You always blow things out of proportion. In any case, I think I'll go take an oatmeal bath. Ew
All right, so Catherine have you ever had the chickenpox? I did. I have very very clear memories of when I was a child
And I had the chickenpox because I believe it was Thanksgiving and I was about four or five years old and
I couldn't I didn't have an appetite so I was not hungry and I like to do was itch and drink and so I still have
Little scars like you mentioned from where I couldn't stop myself from scratching my my little marks right
And well, why does this little boy said that he's going to go take a oatmeal bath and oatmeal bath okay?
Well, this is one of the home remedies one of the home cures for the itchiness all right
So it doesn't make your chickenpox go away, but it does make your skin feel better because it's very calming and smooth
So you can have some creams or some lotions, but other other people like to take an oatmeal bath right so then you're not itching anymore
Right, but it's gross because you're sitting in an oatmeal
It is kind of gross. Have you had the chickenpox? I did I didn't know
But because I couldn't remember so I actually my brother had it recently
So I was afraid that I didn't get it, but call my mom she said I got it so I'm good. You're safe
Yeah, so that's the thing right you can only get it once so once you get it
You don't you don't have a problem
Well, we're curious to know have you had the chickenpox and if you did was it was it really itchy or were you a lucky one and it wasn't so bad
So let us know on our website EnglishPod.com right and if you ever had any other common childhood
illnesses like the mumps or the measles right you can also tell us about that
So we'll see you guys there and until next time bye. Bye. Bye